In November 2019,
the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses
reported an amazing milestone.
Content on jw.org
was now available in 1,000 languages.
We thank Jehovah for this accomplishment.
He guides us with his holy spirit
to “make disciples
of people of all the nations.”
But it didn’t stop at 1,000.
More than 20 languages have been added
since that 2019 report.
Translating media into over 1,000 languages
is an incredible amount of work,
and it requires close cooperation
across many parts of our organization.
Translation teams work under the direction
of the Writing Committee
of the Governing Body.
Additionally, the Publishing Committee
of the Governing Body supports their work
by building remote translation offices
and equipping them with the tools they need.
These remote translation offices
are established
where people speak
the language being translated.
In this video report,
we’ll see how this is done
using adaptable methods
that make wise use of our donations.
But most important,
we’ll see the good results
when people are able to learn about Jehovah
in their own language.
Living where the language we translate
is spoken
has helped us to improve
the way we translate our publications.
We are now able to interact directly
with the native speakers
when we go in the ministry
and attend meetings and assemblies.
The other benefit is
that the commuter volunteers
who come and help daily at the RTO
were born and raised right here.
This fact makes these brothers and sisters
a precious part of the translation team
because they write in a way
that is clear and easy to understand.
The remote translation offices arrangement
has proved to be very effective.
Over time, the Worldwide
Design/Construction Department,
working under the direction
of the Publishing Committee,
worked to simplify new RTOs
and adjust existing ones.
A small RTO can be established
in a Kingdom Hall,
like this one in Easter Island,
or at an Assembly Hall,
like here in Guatemala.
These flexible solutions
make the best use of dedicated funds.
The translation office was built very quickly
with red bricks,
which made it possible for us
to move in within four months.
We never expected that we could be given
such a beautiful place as this
—constructed in record time!
In about six months, they constructed
the residence building,
the offices,
and the recording studio.
In Bangalore, India,
rented space in this commercial building
is used as a support RTO.
As a result,
support for translation-only RTOs
can be fairly simple.
This also means that the space requirements
for a translation-only RTO
reduces significantly.
The team takes the translated text
from the translators
and then they can work it
into a design format
that can be used for printing
or for distribution over the Web
and can also be read on the  JW Library® app
or can be heard as an audio recording.
For a number of years,
there were just a handful of RTOs;
today, there are over 400 worldwide.
That tremendous growth is possible
in part because of the way we now build
and equip RTOs.
Isn’t it wonderful
to be part of Jehovah’s people
who make such great efforts
to reach as many people as possible,
regardless of language?
Since the language
used in the publications is
easy to understand,
I really enjoy doing my personal study.
This has made it possible
to know our Father, Jehovah, better,
and it has also helped me
to teach others about Jehovah,
who are also making Jehovah their Friend.
At Isaiah 65:13, Jehovah says:
“Look!
“My servants will eat,
“but you will go hungry.
“Look!
“My servants will drink,
but you will go thirsty.”
Jehovah’s promise to feed his people
will not go unfulfilled.
It’s the Publishing Committee’s privilege
to assist in that feeding.
We pray for Jehovah’s blessings
on our efforts to provide
remote translation offices
wherever they are needed
to support God’s people.